[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm a clinical
nutritionist in New York City.
I've had a practice
for 40 years.
I've probably seen 25,000
people over the last 40 years.
I've been eating 100% raw.
I don't eat cooked food.
So what I encourage
people to do is to eat--
don't overdo anything.
Eat a variety of
different foods.
Try not to overeat.
Try not to eat in between meals.
>> I was eating, you
know, the sad diet,
the standard American diet.
I was eating as much steak
as I could, if I was lucky,
you know.
Anyway, I just
noticed, every time I'd
eat a steak or a
burger or something,
I'd just want to go lay down
on the couch after a while,
you know, get a
nap or something,
which is one of the effects
of food that people do like.
They like to get
narced from their food.
I know I do.
Get that please feeling in
your gut after, you know,
Thanksgiving or whatever,
and sit back on the couch.
But as an energetic
pursuit, I would
say everything began, for
me, where I just didn't
want to have to go lay down.
So I stopped eating red meat.
And then eventually I
stopped consuming dairy,
because I had tons of acne, and
red discoloration on my face,
and always mucousy.
And then I'm like 23
or 24 or something,
and this girl just happened
to sit down next to me
on this bus, going from
St. Louis to Oklahoma City.
And she looks at me and says,
"You're lactose intolerant."
I said, "What?"
She says, "You need
to stop doing dairy,
all these symptoms
you've got," you know,
which I just detailed,
"will go away."
And I'm like, you know, I've
been to all kinds of doctors
and specialists who
had told me they really
didn't know what it was I
was allergic to, definitely
something.
And you're telling
me it's dairy?
Like, milk does a
body good, doesn't it?
Well anyway, I stopped
three days later.
All those symptoms went
away, never to return.
So that's how everything--
everything kind of
began naturally.
>> My name is Nwenna Kai, and
I'm the owner and culinary
designer of Taste of the
Goddess Cafe in Los Angeles.
I moved to Los Angeles about
four years ago from Chicago.
And it was when I was in
Chicago that I decided
to adopt a raw food diet.
And I had been vegan for a very,
very, very long time, probably
since I was about 18-years-old,
eating mostly a cooked vegan
diet.
But I was sick a lot from eating
a lot of tofu, a lot of seitan,
and a lot of meat
substitute dishes.
And I decided to eat salads
and to drink fresh green juices
for about a week.
My digestion cleared
up from eating
just salads and fresh juices.
And I then just kept
doing that and kept
doing it and doing that.
Literally like that next month,
I went on a yoga retreat.
And I was in the
salad line, still
eating all salads,
and happened to meet
someone who was a raw foodist.
And that person introduced
me to my first raw food
restaurant, which was in Chicago
called Karyn's Fresh Corner.
And from there I started taking
classes and I bought books.
I bought all the
equipment, and just
turned my kitchen
into a laboratory
for experimenting on food.
And I then started to go
online and find recipes.
And then there were raw food
chatrooms and things like that.
And just, the more
that I was seeking
knowledge and
information about it,
the more things
opened up for me.
>> My name's Brendan Brazier.
I'm from Vancouver BC.
I did triathlons
professionally for six years,
ironman triathlons.
I started when I was around
15 to doing triathlons.
So I was eating lots of
peanut butter and bread
and things that were
very high in calories.
But I was tired, and
I didn't know why.
Because calories
measure a food's energy.
I figured the more energy
I took in threw calories
the more energy I would have.
But that wasn't the case.
But making that
transition more to raw,
that problem totally cleared up.
And I could actually get away
with eating 20% or 30% fewer
calories and having
more energy, even
though I didn't have
the calories, just
because I was conserving it.
So energy through conservation,
as opposed to consumption
became a huge part
of my program.
And replacing the heavier
foods, the peanut butter,
the bread with salads
and fruit, things
that really will digest easily.
And that made a big difference.
>> All growth is really
about eliminating that which
doesn't work.
Because your body
already has everything
that it needs to replicate cells
perfectly, to inhibit disease
from forming.
So I would just say
in the beginning,
just eliminate all things
white from your diet.
Eliminate the sugar.
Eliminate the white flour.
If you can't
eliminate it totally,
cut back tremendously on
the dead meat products.
Begin to eliminate
that kind of thing,
and begin to add living food.
Began to add live juices,
good water, good water that's
alive into your body temple.
And I think the
results will begin
to speak for themselves,
because there
will come a mental clarity.
You know, people will
come out of this haze
that they think is
normal, and a clarity
will begin to descend upon them.
And once you taste
that clarity, you
don't want to go back
into the fog again.
>> Most people aren't going
to be complete raw fooders.
I'm not a big promoter of that
because I think most people are
all or nothing in that mindset.
My view is, start to bring
these things to bear.
Start small, taking
a step at a time,
and let the process grow,
rather than going extreme.
Some people go extreme
because they can,
or because they have to, because
they're in a medical emergency.
But most people, I think
have to be introduced.
And they also have
to these foods
are actually tasty
and delicious.
>> Wow.
>> You know, if you think you're
going to have to eat cardboard,
and that's your
idea of raw food--
discipline only lasts so long.
You're only going
to do something
that's painful so long.
What gets people addicted,
in a positive sense,
is when they start to have
their metabolism change,
and they start to taste
this food and the flavors
and they get excited about it.
>> What I've noticed, just in
the community here at Agape,
as people begin to go through
their transition diet,
and then ultimately
add more raw--
tremendous energy.
They all report back
to me the same thing.
They have all this
energy now, where
they used to have
that afternoon lag
or needing to nap for
long periods of time.
That seems to dissolve.
So there's a lot of energy.
And it lasts enough time where
we know that it's not just
a mental hypnotism,
where it's like,
they've heard about
it for so long
that, oh, I'm going
to have this energy,
and then suddenly they
have it, and it only
lasts for a few days.
We've noticed that
people, they continue
to have a tremendous
amount of energy.
Also the mood swing that
a lot of the people have.
And it's almost predictable.
This seems to break the
cycle of that downward spiral
of their moods, and
they're able to stay even
for longer periods of time.
>> One of the habits that took
me a long time to overcome was
eating late at night.
And I come to realize that
was wasn't very good for us
at all, because it could
cause serious problems.
So when you're
eating a bad diet,
you're eating late at night, you
get up in the middle of night
and having a pastrami
sandwich, then
you're going to wonder why you
have to sleep 13 hours a night.
You're going to have to have
two or three cups of coffee
to be able to run on
stimulated energy.
When you eat small
amounts of food,
you're eating nutrient-dense
food that's raw,
you could probably
get by on two or three
hours sleep at night
without no problem,
and you wake up fully refreshed.
>> They got to somehow
get people in their family
or circle who are supportive.
Because otherwise it's really
hard, I think, really hard.
And just for me to be
more raw than cooked
is generally about
people around me.
You know, if I don't
have someone, at least
one person helping me--
if you don't have that, and
you're like, going home,
and there ain't one other person
eating what you're eating?
My god, that's tough.
But you're going to have
to learn to love a salad,
and learn to make good salad,
and some good salad dressing.
>> The one thing I have to
say about raw food nutrition
and living food nutrition
is, when it comes to food
preparation, I'm
completely retarded.
I mean, I can't
even make a salad.
It's totally ridiculous.
So, you know, I've
just orientated myself
to doing it with blenders,
and just blending everything,
and just drinking that.
That's how I live.
You've got to at least open
yourself up to the possibility
that you can do it.
And then the universe will
just say, hey, check this out.
Look at this.
You could have this.
Anybody can go down to the
local health food store
and have them make
a juice up for you.
The innovative ability to create
our reality by the way we speak
and by our will is ultimately
capable of doing anything.
>> Just start.
Start doing something.
Start taking those steps.
And it doesn't matter how small
they are in the beginning.
It may take-- someone on
a standard American diet,
it may take a year
to transition.
It may take two
years, in some cases.
But that's OK.
Because once you
break those cravings
and you get away
from actually wanting
food that's bad for you,
then it's all very easy.
>> Another thing I always
tell people is to don't be
so extreme with it at first.
When I first started eating
raw, I was eating completely raw
and then sometimes I
was eating cooked food.
You know, it's just
really important
to kind of go with the flow and
do what your body wants to do.
And even now, I mean,
there's some times
that I may have some
steamed brown rice,
or I may steam
vegetables, especially
like in the wintertime, or
have warm soups, or something
like that.
In the summertime, because
it's hot, I eat mostly fruits.
I don't really even eat salads.
You know.
And I drink a lot of coconut
water and a lot of water.
So, you know, a lot of people,
they're always wondering, well,
like, if you're
eating just fruits,
you're not getting
your vegetables,
and that sort of thing.
And what I always have
to say to that is,
I've been eating like
this for eight years
and I have been sick.
I haven't had a headache.
I haven't had a cold.
I've never had the flu.
So it's like, I must be
doing something right.
>> Well I think first you've got
to see what's going to make you
actually do this.
And I think when people
experience a change
or transformation, there's
a chemistry to that.
There's elements
that have to happen.
The first thing is satiation.
You know, if your favorite
meal is prime rib and lobster,
and you eat it breakfast,
lunch, and dinner,
there's a point in
which you get satiated.
It's not enough anymore.
It doesn't please you.
And satiation makes people start
looking for an alternative.
That usually isn't enough
to push them over the edge.
Usually it takes them to have
to start to get to a point
where they really
get frustrated,
where it's not just
satiated, but now, I'm
not getting rewarded.
I keep eating this
way, living this way,
and I'm not happy
about the outcome.
Then people get to a threshold
where it's like, OK, I'm done.
This is enough.
Enough already.
I've got to shift.
And when that happens, that
search becomes a hunger.
They really look for a
new answer in their life.
And then when that happens,
usually they get an insight.
They start to say, oh
my gosh, it's my diet.
Oh my gosh, you know, I'm
addicted to this food.
Or oh my gosh, my relationship's
a reflection of how I do this.
I go for comfort, and I never go
through to what really matters,
you know.
I never face up to it.
And that insight
creates an opening,
where they have a
chance to make a change.
But what you have to
do is at that moment,
you've got to take some action.
If you don't, it's like
the opening closes and you
start all over,
and you have to go
through satiation and
dissatisfaction and threshold
all over again.
So I say to people,
grab the opening.
Grab the insight.
You know, being dissatisfied
is a great thing.
It can produce drive in you.
And when you're going
to do it, find something
that you know you can
do in a lasting format.
If you're an extremist and
you really live extreme,
then maybe it's
go pure, raw food
and you'll love it because
you're a new person.
But if you're not
that, if comfort
is really important
to you, then I'd
start to explore, what are
some of those raw foods
that I really like?
I'm not forcing
myself to do this.
I'm really enjoying it.
And I'd introduce 20%,
25% of those raw foods.
Then the energy
starts to take over.
You start feeling better.
And you'll say, OK,
what else can I add?
And gradually, hopefully you
get yourself to 50%, 60%, 70%.
And when you get to that
point, you may not be perfect,
but damn, you have
a lot of energy,
and you feel a vitality
that you've never
felt before in your life.
And that is the
positive addiction.